My name is Chris and I'm
the Chief Information Security
Officer at Google Fiber.
We provide high speed Internet
to customers across
the United States.
As the chief information
security officer,
I'm responsible for making
sure that the
network stays safe,
our customers' data
stays safe and that we
are supporting law enforcement
and others as required.
The career path was a
long and winding one.
My actual first
job was working as
a butcher at the
family grocery store.
I eventually ended up with
a job in the computer
center at college,
which is where I learned
a lot of my initial
computer skills.
Then when I graduated
from college,
I started off as a
software developer,
designing accounting
software for
a consulting company supporting
the Department of Agriculture.
Then I moved on from
that to other roles,
eventually ending up in one of
the first Internet
over cable companies.
I ran several of their services,
email, web services, etc.
My stuff kept getting attacked.
I fell into cybersecurity
because I had to defend the
things that I was building.
I realized it was fun.
I realized that it was a
great career opportunity.
I've just stuck with
that ever since then.
When I got into this field,
other than a couple of books,
there wasn't a lot of
training material out there.
There were some other
people out there that I
could ask questions of,
and I could get some mentoring from.
But as a general rule of
thumb, I was on my own.
Despite this being a
fairly technical field,
the most important
thing you're going to
learn are the connections
you're going to make
to other people.
I made a conscious decision
to become actively
involved in some of the
outside work organizations,
the trade associations,
the non profits,
the meet ups,
and other cybersecurity
organizations.
This enabled me to build
the reputation and
the relationships so that
as my career moved along,
people were reaching out
to me saying, hey Chris,
we have this opportunity,
are you interested?
Because the cybersecurity
industry is so varied,
it can seem like there is
a tremendous amount you
have to learn that there is
this huge step that you have
to take in order to
get into the industry.
That can be daunting.
But the thing to remember is,
once you have that
fundamental level
of skills and fundamental
level of background,
there are so many different
directions you can
go and there's so much
opportunity out there.
There's this continuous
education and
curiosity aspect of the
job that is so much fun.
It means that you are always
having the opportunity
to learn something new,
to change directions and
go in new ways because
cybersecurity is going to be
constantly changing.
And that's part of the fun.